



Secure Telephone Identity Revisited                             C. Wendt
Internet-Draft                                                  R. Sliwa
Intended status: Informational                               Somos, Inc.
Expires: 20 December 2024                                   18 June 2024


                    VESPER - VErifiable STI Personas
                     draft-wendt-stir-vesper-latest

Abstract

   This document extends the STIR architecture by specifying the use of
   JSON Web Tokens (JWT) and Selective Disclosure JWT (SD-JWT) for
   representing persona related information intended to be the output of
   a Know Your Customer (KYC) or Know Your Business (KYB) type of
   vetting process.  It defines entities called Vetting Agents (VA) that
   perform a vetting of persona related information and can issue a
   verifiable token bearing the VA signature, containing information
   that can be disclosed or selectively disclosed to an interested
   party.  The Vetted Entity (VE) can hold this token in selectively
   disclosable forms to disclose specific information to the third
   parties.  The vesper token enables the delivery and verification of
   information with privacy protecting mechanism in a complete,
   selective or zero knowledge manner specifically supported by the SD-
   JWT.  This document also describes an API standard to be supported/
   hosted by a Vetting Agent (VA), which allow vetted parties to present
   tokens proving their KYC/KYB conformance, and incorporates proof of
   possession to ensure the legitimacy of the entity presenting the
   token.

About This Document

   This note is to be removed before publishing as an RFC.

   The latest revision of this draft can be found at
   https://appliedbits.github.io/draft-wendt-stir-vesper/draft-wendt-
   stir-vesper.html.  Status information for this document may be found
   at https://datatracker.ietf.org/doc/draft-wendt-stir-vesper/.

   Discussion of this document takes place on the Secure Telephone
   Identity Revisited Working Group mailing list (mailto:stir@ietf.org),
   which is archived at https://mailarchive.ietf.org/arch/browse/stir/.
   Subscribe at https://www.ietf.org/mailman/listinfo/stir/.

   Source for this draft and an issue tracker can be found at
   https://github.com/appliedbits/draft-wendt-stir-vesper.

Status of This Memo

   This Internet-Draft is submitted in full conformance with the
   provisions of BCP 78 and BCP 79.

   Internet-Drafts are working documents of the Internet Engineering
   Task Force (IETF).  Note that other groups may also distribute
   working documents as Internet-Drafts.  The list of current Internet-
   Drafts is at https://datatracker.ietf.org/drafts/current/.

   Internet-Drafts are draft documents valid for a maximum of six months
   and may be updated, replaced, or obsoleted by other documents at any
   time.  It is inappropriate to use Internet-Drafts as reference
   material or to cite them other than as "work in progress."

   This Internet-Draft will expire on 20 December 2024.

Copyright Notice

   Copyright (c) 2024 IETF Trust and the persons identified as the
   document authors.  All rights reserved.

   This document is subject to BCP 78 and the IETF Trust's Legal
   Provisions Relating to IETF Documents (https://trustee.ietf.org/
   license-info) in effect on the date of publication of this document.
   Please review these documents carefully, as they describe your rights
   and restrictions with respect to this document.  Code Components
   extracted from this document must include Revised BSD License text as
   described in Section 4.e of the Trust Legal Provisions and are
   provided without warranty as described in the Revised BSD License.

Table of Contents

   1.  Introduction
   2.  Conventions and Definitions
   3.  Overview
   4.  Vetting Process Overview
   5.  Vetting Process Procedures
   6.  Selective Disclosure JSON Web Tokens (SD-JWT) for Vetted
           information
   7.  API Endpoints
     7.1.  Request Vetting Token API
     7.2.  Public API for Verifiers
   8.  Security Considerations
   9.  IANA Considerations
   10. Normative References
   Acknowledgments
   Authors' Addresses

1.  Introduction

   The Secure Telephone Identity (STI) architecture fundamentally
   defined by STI certificates in [RFC8226], PASSporTs in [RFC8225], and
   the SIP Identity header field [RFC8224] describe a set of constructs
   and protocols for the use of tokens and digital signatures to protect
   the integrity and provide non-repudiation of information as part of a
   communications session most notably the associated telephone numbers.
   This document extends that architecture to address the association of
   a telephone number to a persona (e.g. a person or business entity)
   given responsibility for the right to use that telephone number.
   Recently, the illegitimate use of telephone numbers by unauthorized
   parties and the associated fraudulent activity associated with those
   communications has generally eroded trust in communications systems.
   Further, basic reliance on the trust of the signer alone to at the
   time of the communications without has proven to require time and
   people consuming work to perform after-the-fact investigation and
   enforcement activities.  Other industries, like the financial
   industry, have adopted well-known successful practices of Know Your
   Customer (KYC) or Know Your Business (KYB), otherwise referred to as
   the application of vetting practices of an entity.  This document
   focuses on the representation of the vetting results and the
   information vetted for the responsible parties before any
   communications can be initiated.  The confirmation and
   acknowledgement of the connection between a persona or business
   entity with a telephone number and the responsibilities associated
   with its use is a critical step towards building true trusted
   relationships between parties involved in a set of communications.
   This document describes the "vesper" token, a VErifiable Sti PERsona
   represented by a token signed by a party that can be used as an
   acknowledged and trusted as part of a communications ecosystem to
   represent the output of the KYC or vetting procedures likely
   corresponding to an agreed upon set of policies defined by a
   communications ecosystem.  Additionally, the use of detailed vetting
   information required to verify a persona is information that likely
   requires strict privacy practices and policies to be enforced.  The
   vesper token and architecture provides mechanisms for providing
   selective disclosure of any personally identifying information to be
   disclosed to those that are authorized by either the persona directly
   or, for example, based on enforcement actions required for
   legitimately authorized legal or regulatory activity.

   In the current state of digital identities, the unique identifier
   used to identify the persona behind the identifier is obviously a
   critical part of using an identifier as part of a digital protocol,
   but just as important is the ability to associate a real-world
   persona to that identifier as the responsible party behind that
   identifier.  The telephone number as an identifier and as part of a
   set of traditional communications services offered around the world
   has been facing a challenge of illegitimate fraud based on the lack
   of a formal framework for the explicit association of a set of
   communications to a directly responsible party.  The use of
   "spoofing" of telephone numbers, a practice of the use of telephone
   numbers by not directly authorized parties, while having very
   legitimate use-cases, has been exploited by actors of fraudulent
   intent to either impersonate the legitimate party, or simply
   obfuscate the actual party behind the call.  Fraud and illegitimate
   activity has proliferated based on the loose connection of telephone
   numbers to responsible parties.

   The use of vesper tokens in communications will allow for a trust
   model enabled by a three party trust system based on an agreed set of
   vetting policies with a set of privacy enabled features to allow for
   selective disclosure for communications that require authorized use
   of a telephone number with the ability to support use-cases that
   require anonymity all the way up to full disclosure of vetted persona
   information if that is desired.  The Vetting Agent (VA) issues the
   vesper token as the party taking responsibility to vet Vetting
   Parties according to a set of policies and best practices, the
   Vetting Entity (VE) holds the resulting token or ability to provide
   access to a fresh token for proof and disclosure that they were
   vetted by the VA, and Vetting Verifier (VV) verifies the token based
   on trust that the VA is reputable and follows policies and best
   practices.  The Vesper token is primarily designed to be used in many
   ways to represent the vetting of the persona associated with a
   telephone number or as referred to more generally an STI.  This
   document defines the specific use of the vesper token in the STI
   architecture.

2.  Conventions and Definitions

   The key words "MUST", "MUST NOT", "REQUIRED", "SHALL", "SHALL NOT",
   "SHOULD", "SHOULD NOT", "RECOMMENDED", "NOT RECOMMENDED", "MAY", and
   "OPTIONAL" in this document are to be interpreted as described in
   BCP 14 [RFC2119] [RFC8174] when, and only when, they appear in all
   capitals, as shown here.

3.  Overview

   The vetting process for entities involves verifying their identity
   and legitimacy, typically through KYC and KYB vetting procedures.
   This document proposes a standardized method for representing the
   results of these vetting procedures using JSON Web Tokens (JWT) and
   Selective Disclosure JWT (SD-JWT).  This document does not address
   how the KYC/KYB should be performed or what documents or processes
   should be used.  Rather the goal of this document is to create a
   standardized identifier for the Vetted Entities (VE) to present that
   they are who they claim to be.

4.  Vetting Process Overview

   The vetting process is much about registration and authentication of
   a Vetting Entity (VE) with a Vetting Authority (VA).  The VE makes
   claims about themselves to prove whom they are and associated claims
   that should be vetted by the VA and will be used to make trusted
   disclosures to at Vetting Verifier (VV).  The vesper token is issued
   with that set of selectively disclosable claims to formalize that the
   information has been vetted and represents the VE accurately.

5.  Vetting Process Procedures

   The vetting process generally involves the following steps:

   Setup and registration of VE with VA 1.  Registration of the Vetting
   Entity (VE) with a Vetting Authority (VA).  The VE creates an
   authenticated account relationship with the VA and a unique entity_id
   is created. 2.  The VE submits a set of information to describe
   itself with uniquely identifiable entity specific information.  This
   document describes a baseline set of information claims that SHOULD
   be included, but anticipates future specifications that correspond to
   future communications ecosystem policies and best practices that may
   extend that set of information including the syntax and definitions.
   The submittal of information to the VA is RECOMMENDED to follow the
   format and syntax of what will be defined later in the document as
   the token claim format for each set of information, but this document
   does not specifically define a protocol for the submission of
   information, only the token that represents the results of the
   process. 3.  The VA performs the vetting functions and KYC/KYB checks
   according to their procedures.  The vetting functions are something
   that can be performed in many ways in different countries and legal
   jurisdictions and therefore this document does not specify any
   specifics to how the VA performs these vetting functions and is out
   of scope of this document.

   RECOMMENDED but optional use of Key Binding (KB) as defined in
   [I-D.ietf-oauth-selective-disclosure-jwt]: 4.  The entity generates a
   public/private key pair or the VA does it on the entries behalf. 5.
   The public key is registered with the VA.

   VA publishes vetted information digest to transparency service 6.
   The VA creates hash of their vetting data and/or results.  What
   exactly is included in generation of the hash is up to VA and
   influenced by the process used. 7.  The VA logs the hash of the KYC/
   KYB data with a transparency service and issues a transparency
   receipt. 8.  The VA provides the API service or the Vetted Entity
   (VE) hosts their own according the API definition in this document.

   VE initiates communications requiring a valid and fresh token with
   required disclosures 9.  The VA issues an SD-JWT containing the KYC/
   KYB information, the public key in CNF claim (per SD-JWT RFC draft),
   and the transparency receipt.

   VV Verification procedures 10.  VV ensures that token signature is
   correct.  Optionally, if Key Binding is used, VV validates KB-JWT.
   11.  VV can verify the Transparency log signature to further trust
   the token.

6.  Selective Disclosure JSON Web Tokens (SD-JWT) for Vetted information

   This document defines the vesper token using the SD-JWT, defined in
   [I-D.ietf-oauth-selective-disclosure-jwt].  The vetting process and
   disclosure of information closely follows the SD-JWT Issuance and
   Presentation Flow, Disclosure and Verification, and generally the
   three-party model (i.e.  Issuer, Holder, Verifier) defined in that
   document.

   In order to represent the vetted claim information about a VE.  The
   SD-JWT MUST include the following claims:

   iss: Issuer, the Vetting Authority. sub: Subject, the vetted entity
   represented by a unique entity_id iat: Issuance timestamp. exp:
   Expiry timestamp. kyc_data_hash: Hash of the KYC/KYB data.
   transparency_receipt: Transparency receipt issued by the transparency
   service. cnf: Public key of the vetted entity, only if key binding is
   required, defined in [RFC7800] vetting_process: Details of the
   vetting process, including the date and methodology. vetting_outcome:
   Result of the vetting process.

7.  API Endpoints

   The vetting service provides the following APIs:

7.1.  Request Vetting Token API

   Endpoint: /api/request-vetting-token Method: POST Description:
   Requests a vetting token (SD-JWT) from the Vetting Authority (VA).
   Headers:

   *  Authorization: Bearer {VA's m2m bearer token}

   Request Body:

   {
     "entity_id": "unique-entity-id",
     "key_binding": true,
     "public_key_jwk": {
       "kty": "RSA",
       "e": "AQAB",
       "n": "lsO0Qe0Qu7FwZQ22T5vlqXN...",
       "alg": "RS256"
     }
   }

   Response:

   {
     "status": "success",
     "vetting_token": "eyJhbGciOiJIUzI1NiIsInR5cCI6IkpXVCJ9...",
     "transparency_receipt": {
       "log_entry_id": "transparency-log-001",
       "receipt": {
         "hash": "abc123...",
         "timestamp": "2024-06-11T12:35:00Z",
         "signature": "transparency-service-signature"
       }
     }
   }

   Note: entity_id is generated by VA.  The mechanism how persona is
   vetted is not subject of this document.  This API can only be called
   after the vetting was complete and entity_id was issued.

7.2.  Public API for Verifiers

   Endpoint: /api/verify-vetted-info Method: POST Description: Verifies
   the validity of transparency receipt.  Request Body:

   {
     "transparency_receipt": {
       "log_entry_id": "transparency-log-001",
       "receipt": {
         "hash": "abc123...",
         "timestamp": "2024-06-11T12:35:00Z",
         "signature": "transparency-service-signature"
       }
     }
   }

   Response:

   {
     "status": "success",
     "message": "Vetted information verified successfully."
   }

8.  Security Considerations

   TODO Security

9.  IANA Considerations

   This document has no IANA actions.

10.  Normative References

   [I-D.ietf-oauth-selective-disclosure-jwt]
              Fett, D., Yasuda, K., and B. Campbell, "Selective
              Disclosure for JWTs (SD-JWT)", Work in Progress, Internet-
              Draft, draft-ietf-oauth-selective-disclosure-jwt-09, 13
              June 2024, <https://datatracker.ietf.org/doc/html/draft-
              ietf-oauth-selective-disclosure-jwt-09>.

   [RFC2119]  Bradner, S., "Key words for use in RFCs to Indicate
              Requirement Levels", BCP 14, RFC 2119,
              DOI 10.17487/RFC2119, March 1997,
              <https://www.rfc-editor.org/rfc/rfc2119>.

   [RFC7800]  Jones, M., Bradley, J., and H. Tschofenig, "Proof-of-
              Possession Key Semantics for JSON Web Tokens (JWTs)",
              RFC 7800, DOI 10.17487/RFC7800, April 2016,
              <https://www.rfc-editor.org/rfc/rfc7800>.

   [RFC8174]  Leiba, B., "Ambiguity of Uppercase vs Lowercase in RFC
              2119 Key Words", BCP 14, RFC 8174, DOI 10.17487/RFC8174,
              May 2017, <https://www.rfc-editor.org/rfc/rfc8174>.

   [RFC8224]  Peterson, J., Jennings, C., Rescorla, E., and C. Wendt,
              "Authenticated Identity Management in the Session
              Initiation Protocol (SIP)", RFC 8224,
              DOI 10.17487/RFC8224, February 2018,
              <https://www.rfc-editor.org/rfc/rfc8224>.

   [RFC8225]  Wendt, C. and J. Peterson, "PASSporT: Personal Assertion
              Token", RFC 8225, DOI 10.17487/RFC8225, February 2018,
              <https://www.rfc-editor.org/rfc/rfc8225>.

   [RFC8226]  Peterson, J. and S. Turner, "Secure Telephone Identity
              Credentials: Certificates", RFC 8226,
              DOI 10.17487/RFC8226, February 2018,
              <https://www.rfc-editor.org/rfc/rfc8226>.

Acknowledgments

   TODO acknowledge.

Authors' Addresses

   Chris Wendt
   Somos, Inc.
   United States of America
   Email: chris@appliedbits.com


   Rob Sliwa
   Somos, Inc.
   United States of America
   Email: robjsliwa@gmail.com
